---
author: smi
title: "Adding Content: Posts and Pages"
date: 2019-05-12 11:10:00 +0200
categories: jekyll
img: jekyll01.png
---

Pages are the basic building blocks of a website. Pages in Jekyll represent standalone content (e.g home page, about page, contact me page or general info page ... ). 

Pages can easily be added by adding a `.html` or `.md` file to the root folder (or some subfolder).  Posts, on the other hand, represent content that is grouped by date or content and are typically written in *markdown*. Jekyll provides everything you need to turn posts into a fully functional blog. 

## Adding Content Tutorial

Default folder structure: 

- **blog**: Root project folder
  - **_posts**: Folder with posts
  - **_site**: folder with automatically generated static website
  - **.sass-cache**: sass css cache folder 

Only **_posts** folder should be edited, while the other two are automatically generated by Jekyll. The root project folder also contains following files:

- *_config.yml*: Website configuration (title, url, themes, ...)
- *404.html*: Custom 404 page
- *about.md*: Custom about page
- *index.md*: Home page

First change the website **title**, user **email** and site **description** in the **_config.yml** file. You may also provide **twitter_username** and **github_username** in the same file. The default theme is `minima`. After changing **_config.yml** file it is important to restart the server. Each theme comes with its own layouts (e.g `post` and `page` in the case of `minima`). Layouts define how a web page will look. 

Our website will consist of blog posts and web pages. Blog posts are written in markdown format and are placed in the **_posts** folder. Folder **_post** can have subfolders, for better content organization. Each page should start with a front matter in `yaml` or `json` format. At the top of each markdown file add a header that contains some information about the page, e.g.:

```yaml
---
layout: post
title: "Welcom to Jekyll"
date: 2019-04-21 15:58:59 -0700
categories: jekyll update
author: "Smi"
permalink: /about/
---
```

Post url is generated based on the front matter information. It is also possible to define front matter variables which can be accessed from Jekyll layouts. 

We will make a new *2019-04-21-jekyll-intro-tutorial.markdown* file with the following front matter and place it in **_posts** folder:

```yaml
---
layout: post
title: "Jekyll intro"
categories: jekyll update
---
```

All posts should have the following file name format "YYYY-MM-DD-name-of-post.ext", where `.ext` will be either `md` or `markdown`. 

If we have a working post that we do not want to publish it yet, we can create a new folder **_drafts** and place our *markdown* file there. Drafts posts need not follow the post naming convention as before/ In order to see the draft posts, we can run the local server with option `--draft` and this will generate all *draft* posts and appropriate links. 

```bash
bundle exec jekyll serve --draft
```

Once the posts are moved from the **_drafts** folder into the **_posts** folder (appropriate name must be provided: "YYYY-MM-DD-name-of-post.ext"), they will become published (visible).

Web pages (that are not blog posts) are *markdown* files which are normally not located in the **_posts**/**_drafts** folder and have the *page* layout. This includes the *about.md* page which is generated automatically. We will make a new page named *donate.md* in folder **pages**. In order to make a page, we will provide the following content: 

```yaml
---
layout: page
title: "Donations"
---
Donate Now!
```

This page is now available at url: "http://localhost:4000/blog/pages/donate". The title of the page is Donations and it is not listed in the posts section on our home page (page with `layout: home`). A new menu item "Donations" will also appear. 

We can add the following variable in the front matter: `permalink: /donate/`.  Now our *donate.md* will be available at url: "http://localhost:4000/blog/donate/". Permalink can be used to provide a unique url for our web page (or post). 

------

add more

------

## References

1. Jekyll docs - permalinks:  https://jekyllrb.com/docs/permalinks/
2. Jekyll docs - directory structure: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/structure/
3. Jekyll docs - front matter: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/configuration/front-matter-defaults/
4. Jekyll docs - pages: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/pages/
5. Jekyll docs - posts: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/

